# 01a - File parser

## What is it

Code that can understand a given file format.

## What does it solve

Data needs to be serialized for storage, there are many conventional formats and parsers are how we integrate these file formats with our code.

## Pros

- Enables saving state to a file.

## Cons

- Certain file formats can be harder to understand and write a parser for. Yaml xml and json for example.

## Use cases

Video game save data, databases, configuration.

# Learning goals

## Data formats. TXT, JSON, YAML, CSV, XML

### TXT

Very simple plain unstructured plain text. When used in a parsing context, act as a key value file where the key and value are separated by a "=" sign.

### JSON

More complex structure of key value pairs, but allows for a nested structure, human readble but on a larger scale can be hard to read. Often used in API's as requests and responses.

### YAML

JSON like, but relies on identation, still key value pairs but YAML is less strict and has string operators that manipulate the value.

### CSV

Comma separated values, can be compared to an excel schema, rows and coloumns, the first line is often the headers, the rest being the rows and columns.

### XML

Very complex structure, very reminiscent of html, very verbose. Uses tags with attributes.

## Alternative integrations to REST API.

- Websockets
- RPC (Remote Procedure Call)
- GraphQL
- SOAP
- AMQP (message brokers)

## Can parse files in these formats after the homework.

See 01a-03a about parsing in Gleam and Python

## Can work with modules in Javascript and Python. Knows why we use ES6 modules in Javascript and why it matters to a course focused on integration.

```javascript
import x from "module";
import * as x from "module";
import { x } from "module";
```

```python
import module
from module import x
```

We use ES6 because it is the standard implemented by the browser, aka the client.

## Can argue about different build tools for Python and understands their pros and cons.

- Poetry
  - Pros
    - Allows for a automated way of handling your dependencies, creates a lockfile and a venv that you can operate through using the poetry cli
  - Cons
    - Can be overkill for simple projects
    - Overreliance can lead to lack of knowledge regarding how python venv and such works
- PiPEnv

## Can use Poetry

- poetry init (-q for no input)
- poetry add
- poetry remove
- poetry run
- poetry shell

## Understands encoding, serializing and marshalling. Knows about charsets and encoding types.

In general they all operate on transfering/tranlating data in some way

### Encoding

Translates text to a new output that can be reversed (Base64)

### Serializing

Stores data in a format on disk

### Marshalling

Same as Serializing but instead of saving disk, is used for transfer via network, often used in RPC.

### Encoding types

- UTF8
  - All the UTF's
- Base64
- URL
- ASCI
