# 03a - Server to server

## What is it

When two servers communicate with other through a protocol, can be http(s), rpc etc.

## What does it aim to solve

Situations where two or more servers needs something from one another, most often data of some sort.

## Pros

- Connectivity, we can comunicate across systems.
- No user input required, nessesarily.
- High reliability.

## Cons

- Has to be set up and we need to know the url of the server we wish to connect to, plus we also need to know how to communicate with it, json, form data etc.

## Use case

API's.

# Learning goals

## Knows about different communication protocols on a superficial level.

A communication protocol is a set rules (standard) for how to communicate between systems.

### TCP, UDP

Network transfer protocols, TCP is realiable but slower than UDP which is then less reliable.

### HTTP(S)

Hyper Text Transfer Protoco (Secure). Works on top of TCP or UDP, and is used for web communication.

### RPC (Remote Procdure Call)

A more strict schema based protocol.

### Websockets

A full duplex bi-directional communication protocol used for realtime communication between client and server

### WebRTC

A peer to peer protocol, used for transfering media, audio and video to another peer. Can be troublesome without using ice servers, found with stun/turn servers.

### AMQP

An asynchronous message queue protocol.

## Knows how to make a HTTP requests in different languages.

```javascript
const res = fetch("url", { ...options });
```

```python
from requests import requests

res = requests.get('url')
```

## Understand the different levels of environment variables and how they differ.

- System
  - Env are awailable in a system level scope
- User
  - Env are awailable in a user level scope
- Session
  - Env are awailable in a session level scope, eg. exporting in a terminal
- Application
  - Env are awailable in a system level scope

## Knows how to define environment variables in different languages.

```javascript
import "dotenv/config";

const DB_URL = process.env.DB_URL;
```

```python
from dotenv import dotenv_values, load_dotenv

def first():
    load_dotenv()
    print(os.getenv('FOO'))


def second():
    config = dotenv_values('.env')
    print(config['FOO'])
```
