# 04a - Server Sent Events (SSE)

## What is it?

SSE is technique for allowing the server to keep a http connection open until needed. It uses the EventSource class on the client to establish the connection. Then on the server, some specific headers are set and it starts writing to the request stream when events are registered.

## What does it solve?

SSE aims to solve situations where a uni directional connection can allow a client to recieve updates from the server instead of polling it.

## Pros

- Efficient one way communication between server and client.
- Low cost, little overhead.

## Cons

- Very simple, only allows for one way communication.
- Can have limitations, allowing only for six connected clients.
- The sent data can only be utf-8.
- It must end with two newlines.

## Use cases

Application that have one way communication use cases, like notifications or stock exchanges. Can also be used in a chat app if the one user is not active, letting them becomming a one way communication.

# Learning goals

## Know about standards for time representation relating to date, time and time zones. Can bring up quirks regarding time representation.

An important standard in this context is ISO 8601, using UTC for storing dates is a good standard as we can work across timezones.
Unix time, represents time in seconds that has passed since 1970 at 00:00.
Leap seconds

## Can bring up examples of date/time issues which can affect systems and/or users. Having the ability to bring up concrete thought-up examples of possible edge cases during integration and how to solve them.

- Storing time in a bad/wrong format can lead to formatting errors. Eg. Wrong time zone.
- Booking/Meeting situations where the date and time has to be correct.
- Tickets dates can lead to erros.

## Understands client polling, short polling, long polling and the pros and cons of each approach.

### Client/Short pooling

Client continously asks the server for updates, can be set to an interval but the requests are continiously being sent to ask the server for updates.

**Pros**

- Client remains up to date with the server

**Cons**

- The server is bombarded with requests from all the clients.

### Long pooling

Client sends requests but the server keeps the connection alive through headers and sends a response when there is one, client then resends a new request to remain up to date.

**Pros**

- The client remains up to date while sending fewer requests.

**Cons**

- The server still has to keep all the connections alive which takes resources.

### Understands SSE and can explain how to implement it. Has an example ready.

Server Sent Events (SSE) is similar to Long Pooling. The connection is kept alive and sends a response when ready. However, The connection is now closed. So instead of sending a response we write to a text stream. Data is sent as a string but in a specific format like so "data: ... \n\n" the event (data) must end with two newlines, this signal the end of the event.
On the client a Eventsourse instance is used to connect to an endpoint that uses SSE.
