# 13a - GraphQL

## What is it

GraphQL is among other things a query language created by Meta then (Facebook), for the client it is an abstraction on top of a normal http request. For the server it is often a framework that handles the incomming request, similar to a normal web server framework. Queries and mutations are important parts of how GraphQL structures itself, there is only a single endpoint but the requests specifies the specific query or mutation to perform, and therein the desired resources.

The core structure of a GraphQL api is the schema, which specifices the queries and mutations available. There are schema and code first approaches, where the code first approaches generates a schema.

## What does it solve

GraphQL primarily solves the following problems:

- Overfetching
  - The client recieves too much data
- Underfetching
  - The client recieves too little data

With GraphQL the client can specify exactly the resources it needs as long as the schema supports it.

By it's nature GraphQL also enables good teamwork between frontend and backend teams. The two teams can agree on a schema that suits them both and work from there.

## Pros

- Client performance improvement, only gets needed data.
- Great client dx, writing GraphQL queries can be simple with the right framework.
- By it's own nature includes documentation for the api in the form of the schema, some frameworks comes with an explorer that makes it even easier to use the api.

## Cons

- Server overhead, can be somewhat complex to implement on the server and introduces a lot of extra fetching from the database depending on the implementation.
- Caching is less effective, all data comes from the same endpoint.

## Use cases

- If client performance is critical
  - Underfetching and overfetching problems.
  - If the users are in an area with bad internet or the app is used on a device with bad hardware.
- When the development is split up between two teams, the GraphQL schema can act as a contract between the teams.
- With the right framework GraphQL might provide a great start experience for new developers wishing to build a product, or learn more about web applications.
